# Intro

CSP comes with some basic constructs readily available and commonly used.
The latest set of baselib nodes / adapters can be found in the csp.baselib module.

All of the nodes / adapters noted here are imported directly into the csp namespace when importing csp.
These are all graph-time constructs.

# Adapters

## `timer`

```python
csp.timer(
    interval: timedelta,
    value: '~T' = True,
    allow_deviation: bool = False
)
```

This will create a repeating timer edge that will tick on the given `timedelta` with the given value (value defaults to `True`, returning a `ts[bool]`)

Args:

- **`interval`**: how often to tick value
- **`value`**: the actual value that will tick every interval (defaults to the value `True`)
- **`allow_deviation`**: When running in realtime the engine will ensure timers execute exactly when they requested on their intervals.
  If your engine begins to lag, timers will still execute at the expected time "in the past" as the engine catches up
  (imagine having a `csp.timer` fire every 1/2 second but the engine becomes delayed for 1 second.
  By default the half seconds will still execute until time catches up to wallclock).
  When `allow_deviation` is `True`, and the engine is in realtime mode, subsequent timers will always be scheduled from the current wallclock + interval,
  so they won't end up lagging behind at the expensive of the timer skewing.

## `const`

```python
csp.const(
    value: '~T',
    delay: timedelta = timedelta()
)
```

This will create an edge that ticks one time with the value provided.
By default this will tick at the start of the engine, delta can be provided to delay the tick

## `curve`

```python
csp.curve(
    typ: 'T',
    data: typing.Union[list, tuple]
)
```

This allows you to convert a list of non-csp data into a ticking edge in csp

Args:

- **`typ`**: is the type of the value of the data of this edge
- **`data`**: is either a list of tuples of `(datetime, value)`, or a tuple of two equal-length numpy ndarrays, the first with datetimes and the second with values.
  In either case, that will tick on the returned edge into the engine, and the data must be in time order.
  Note that for the list of tuples case, you can also provide tuples of (timedelta, value) where timedelta will be the offset from the engine's start time.

## `add_graph_output`

```python
csp.add_graph_output(
    key: object,
    input: ts['T'],
    tick_count: int = -1,
    tick_history: timedelta = timedelta()
)
```

This allows you to connect an edge as a "graph output".
All edges added as outputs will be returned to the caller from `csp.run` as a dictionary of `key: [(datetime, value)]`
(list of datetime, values that ticked on the edge) or if `csp.run` is passed `output_numpy=True`, as a dictionary of
`key: (array, array)` (tuple of two numpy arrays, one with datetimes and one with values).
See [Collecting Graph Outputs](https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/0.-Introduction#collecting-graph-outputs)

Args:

- **`key`**: key to return the results as from csp.run
- **`input`**: edge to connect
- **`tick_count`**: number of ticks to keep in the buffer (defaults to -1 - all ticks)
- **`tick_history`**: amount of ticks to keep by time window (defaults to keeping all history)

## `feedback`

```python
csp.feedback(typ)
```

`csp.feedback` is a construct that can be used to create artificial loops in the graph.
Use feedbacks in order to delay bind an input to a node in order to be able to create a loop
(think of writing a simulated exchange that takes orders in and needs to feed responses back to the originating node).

`csp.feedback` itself is not an edge, its a construct that allows you to access the delayed edge / bind a delayed input.

Args:

- **`typ`**: type of the edge's data to be bound

Methods:

- **`out()`**: call this method on the feedback object to get the edge which can be wired as an input
- **`bind(x: ts[object])`**: call this to bind an edge to the feedback

# Basic Nodes

## `print`

```python
csp.print(
    tag: str,
    x: ts['T'])
```

This node will print (using python `print()`) the time, tag and value of `x` for every tick of `x`

## `log`

```python
csp.log(
    level: int,
    tag: str,
    x: ts['T'],
    logger: typing.Optional[logging.Logger] = None,
    logger_tz: object = None,
    use_thread: bool = False
)
```

Similar to `csp.print`, this will log ticks using the logger on the provided level.
The default 'csp' logger is used if none is provided to the node.

Args:

- **`logger_tz`**: time zone to use for log entries
- **`use_thread`**: if `True`, the logging calls will occur in a separate thread as to not block graph execution.
  This can be useful when printing large strings in log calls.
  If individual time-series values are subject to modification *after* the log call, then the user must pass in a copy of the time-series if they wish to have proper threaded logging.

## `sample`

```python
csp.sample(
    trigger: ts[object],
    x: ts['T']
) → ts['T']
```

Use this to down-sample an input.
`csp.sample` will return the current value of `x` any time trigger ticks.
This can be combined with `csp.timer` to sample the input on a time interval.

## `firstN`

```python
csp.firstN(
    x: ts['T'],
    N: int
) → ts['T']
```

Only output the first `N` ticks of the input.

## `count`

```python
csp.count(x: ts[object]) → ts[int]
```

Returns the ticking count of ticks of the input

## `delay`

```python
csp.delay(
    x: ts['T'],
    delay: typing.Union[timedelta, int]
) → ts['T']
```

This will delay all ticks of the input `x` by the given `delay`, which can be given as a `timedelta` to delay a specified amount of time, or as an int to delay a specified number of ticks (delay must be positive)

## `diff`

```python
csp.diff(
    x: ts['T'],
    lag: typing.Union[timedelta, int]
) → ts['T']
```

When `x` ticks, output difference between current tick and value time or ticks ago (once that exists)

## `merge`

```python
csp.merge( x: ts['T'], y: ts['T']) → ts['T']
```

Merges the two timeseries `x` and `y` into a single series.
If both tick on the same cycle, the first input (`x`) wins and the value of `y` is dropped.
For loss-less merging see `csp.flatten`

## `split`

```python
csp.split(
    flag: ts[bool],
    x: ts['T']
) → {false: ts['T'], true: ts['T']}
```

Splits input `x` onto two outputs depending on the value of `flag`.
If `flag` is `True` when `x` ticks, output 'true' will tick with the value of `x`.
If `flag` is `False` at the time of the input tick, then 'false' will tick.
Note that if flag is not valid at the time of the input tick, the input will be dropped.

## `filter`

```python
csp.filter(flag: ts[bool], x: ts['T']) → ts['T']
```

Will only tick out input ticks of `x` if the current value of `flag` is `True`.
If flag is `False`, or if flag is not valid (hasn't ticked yet) then `x` is suppressed.

## `drop_dups`

```python
csp.drop_dups(x: ts['T']) → ts['T']
```

Will drop consecutive duplicate values from the input.

## `unroll`

```python
csp.unroll(x: ts[['T']]) → ts['T']
```

Given a timeseries of a *list* of values, unroll will "unroll" the values in the list into a timeseries of the elements.
`unroll` will ensure to preserve the order across all list ticks.
Ticks will be unrolled in subsequent engine cycles.

## `collect`

```python
csp.collect(x: [ts['T']]) → ts[['T']]
```

Given a basket of inputs, return a timeseries of a *list* of all values that ticked

## `flatten`

```python
csp.flatten(x: [ts['T']]) → ts['T']
```

Given a basket of inputs, return all ticks across all inputs as a single timeseries of type 'T'
(This is similar to `csp.merge` except that it can take more than two inputs, and is lossless)

## `default`

```python
csp.default(
    x: ts['T'],
    default: '~T',
    delay: timedelta = timedelta()
)
```

Defaults the input series to the value of `default` at start of the engine, or after `delay` if `delay` is provided.
If `x` ticks right at the start of the engine, or before `delay` if `delay` is provided, `default` value will be discarded.

## `gate`

```python
csp.gate(
    x: ts['T'],
    release: ts[bool]
) → ts[['T']]
```

`csp.gate` will hold values of the input series until `release` ticks `True`, at which point all pending values will be output as a burst.
`release` can tick open / closed repeatedly.
While open, the input will tick out as a single value burst.
While closed, input ticks will buffer up until they can be released.

## `apply`

```python
csp.apply(
    x: csp.ts['T'],
    f: Callable[['T'], 'O'],
    result_type: 'O'
) → ts['O']
```

Applies the provided callable `f` on every tick of the input and returns the result of the callable.

## `null_ts`

```python
csp.null_ts(typ: 'T')
```

Returns a "null" timeseries of the given type which will never tick.

## `stop_engine`

```python
csp.stop_engine(x: ts['T'])
```

Forces the engine to stop if `x` ticks

## `multiplex`

```python
csp.multiplex(
    x: {'K': ts['T']},
    key: ts['K'],
    tick_on_index: bool = False,
    raise_on_bad_key: bool = False
) → ts['T']
```

Given a dictionary basket of inputs and a key timeseries, tick out ticks from the input basket timeseries matching the current key.

Args:

- **`x`**: dictionary basket of timeseries inputs
- **`key`**: timeseries of keys that will be used as the multiplex key
- **`tick_on_index`**: if `True`, will tick the current value of
  the input basket whenever the key ticks (defaults to `False`)
- **`raise_on_bad_key`**: if `True` an exception will be raised if key ticks with an unrecognized key (defaults to `False`)

## `demultiplex`

```python
csp.demultiplex(
    x: ts['T'],
    key: ts['K'],
    keys: ['K'],
    raise_on_bad_key: bool = False
) → {key: ts['T']}
```

Given a single timeseries input, a key timeseries to demultiplex on and a set of expected keys, will output the given input onto the corresponding basket output of the current value of `key`.
A good example use case of this is demultiplexing a timeseries of trades by account.
Assuming your trade struct has an account field, you can `demultiplex(trades, trades.account, [ 'acct1', 'acct2', ... ])`.

Args:

- **`x`**: the input timeseries to demultiplex
- **`key`**: a ticking timeseries of the current key to output to
- **`keys`**: a list of expected keys that will define the shape of the output basket.  The list of keys must be known at graph building time
- **`raise_on_bad_key`**: if `True` an exception will be raised of key ticks with an unrecognized key (defaults to `False`)

## `dynamic_demultiplex`

```python
csp.dynamic_demultiplex(
    x: ts['T'],
    key: ts['K']
) → {ts['K']: ts['T']}
```

Similar to `csp.demultiplex`, this version will return a [Dynamic Basket](https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/6.-Dynamic-Graphs) output that will dynamically add new keys as they are seen.

## `dynamic_collect`

```python
csp.dynamic_collect(
    x: {ts['K']: ts['T']}
) → ts[{'K': 'T'}]
```

Similar to `csp.collect`, this function takes a [Dynamic Basket](https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/6.-Dynamic-Graphs) input and returns a dictionary of the key-value pairs corresponding to the values that ticked.

## `drop_nans`

```python
csp.drop_nans(x: ts[float]) → ts[float]
```

Filters nan (Not-a-number) values out of the time series.

## `times`

```python
csp.times(x: ts['T']) → ts[datetime]
```

Given a timeseries, returns the time at which that series ticks

## `times_ns`

```python
csp.times_ns(x: ts['T']) → ts[int]
```

Given a timeseries, returns the epoch time in nanoseconds at which that series ticks

## `accum`

```python
csp.accum(x: ts["T"], start: "~T" = 0) -> ts["T"]
```

Given a timeseries, accumulate via `+=` with starting value `start`.

# Math and Logic nodes

See [Math Nodes](<https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/XX.-(Draft)-Math-Nodes-(csp.math)>).

# Functional Methods

Edges in csp contain some methods to serve as syntactic sugar for stringing nodes together in a pipeline. This makes it easier to read/modify workflows and avoids the need for nested brackets.

## `apply`

```python
Edge.apply(self, func, *args, **kwargs)
```

Calls `csp.apply` on the edge with the provided python `func`.

Args:

- **`func`**: A scalar function that will be applied on each value of the Edge. If a different output type is returned, pass a tuple `(f, typ)`, where `typ` is the output type of f
- **`args`**: Positional arguments passed into `func`
- **`kwargs`**: Dictionary of keyword arguments passed into func

## `pipe`

```python
Edge.pipe(self, node, *args, **kwargs)
```

Calls the `node` on the edge.

Args:

- **`node`**: A graph node that will be applied to the Edge, which is passed into node as the first argument.
  Alternatively, a `(node, edge_keyword)` tuple where `edge_keyword` is a string indicating the keyword of node that expects the edge.
- **`args`**: Positional arguments passed into `node`
- **`kwargs`**: Dictionary of keyword arguments passed into `node`

## `run`

```python
Edge.run(self, node, *args, **kwargs)
```

Alias for `csp.run(self, *args, **kwargs)`

## Example of functional methods

```python
import csp
from datetime import datetime, timedelta
import math

(csp.timer(timedelta(minutes=1))
    .pipe(csp.count)
    .pipe(csp.delay, timedelta(seconds=1))
    .pipe((csp.sample, 'x'), trigger=csp.timer(timedelta(minutes=2)))
    .apply((math.sin, float))
    .apply(math.pow, 3)
    .pipe(csp.firstN, 10)
    .run(starttime=datetime(2000,1,1), endtime=datetime(2000,1,2)))

```

# Other nodes

## `exprtk`

```python
csp.exprtk(
    expression_str: str,
    inputs: {str: ts[object]},
    state_vars: dict = {},
    trigger: ts[object] = None,
    functions: dict = {},
    constants: dict = {},
    output_ndarray: bool = False)
```

Given a mathematical expression, and a set of timeseries corresponding to variables in that expression, tick out the result of that expression, either every time an input ticks, or on the trigger if provided.

Args:

- **`expression_str`**: an expression, as per the [C++ Mathematical Expression Library](http://www.partow.net/programming/exprtk/) (see [readme](http://www.partow.net/programming/exprtk/code/readme.txt)
- **`inputs`**: a dict basket of timeseries. The keys will correspond to the variables in the expression. The timeseries can be of float or string
- **`state_vars`**: an optional dictionary of variables to be held in state between executions, and assignable within the expression.  Keys are the variable names and values are the starting values
- **`trigger`**: an optional trigger for when to calculate. By default will calculate on any input tick
- **`functions`**: an optional dictionary whose keys are function names that can be used in the expression, and whose values are of the form `(("arg1", ..), "function body")`, for example `{"foo": (("x","y"), "x\*y")}`
- **`constants`**: an optional dictionary of constants.  Keys are constant names and values are their values
- **`output_ndarray`**: if `True`, output ndarray (1D) instead of float. Note that to output `ndarray`, the expression needs to use return like `return [a, b, c]`. The length of the array can vary between ticks.
