# tl;dr

After developing a change locally, ensure that both [lints](https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/98.-Building-From-Source#lint-and-autoformat) and [tests](https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/98.-Building-From-Source#testing) pass. Commits should be squashed into logical units, and all commits must be signed (e.g. with the `-s` git flag). `csp` requires [Developer Certificate of Origin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Developer_Certificate_of_Origin) for all contributions.

If your work is still in-progress, open a [draft pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests). Otherwise, open a normal pull request. It might take a few days for a maintainer to review and provide feedback, so please be patient. If a maintainer asks for changes, please make said changes and squash your commits if necessary. If everything looks good to go, a maintainer will approve and merge your changes for inclusion in the next release.

**Please note that non substantive changes, large changes without prior discussion, etc, are not accepted and pull requests may be closed.**

# Setting up a development environment

To work on `csp`, you are going to need to build it from source. See
https://github.com/Point72/csp/wiki/98.-Building-From-Source for
detailed build instructions.

Once you've built `csp` from a `git` clone, you will also need to
configure `git` and your GitHub account for `csp` development.

## Configuring Git and GitHub for Development

### Create your fork

The first step is to create a personal fork of `csp`. To do so, click
the "fork" button at https://github.com/Point72/csp, or just navigate
[here](https://github.com/Point72/csp/fork) in your browser. Set the
owner of the repository to your personal GitHub account if it is not
already set that way and click "Create fork".

### Configure remotes

Next, you should set some names for the `git` remotes corresponding to
main Point72 repository and your fork. If you started with a clone of
the main `Point72` repository, you could do something like:

```bash
cd csp
git remote rename origin upstream

# for SSH authentication
git remote add origin git@github.com:<username>/csp.git

# for HTTP authentication
git remote add origin https://github.com/<username>/csp.git
```

### Authenticating with GitHub

If you have not already configured `ssh` access to GitHub, you can find
instructions to do so
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh),
including instructions to create an SSH key if you have not done
so. Authenticating with SSH is usually the easiest route. If you are working in
an environment that does not allow SSH connections to GitHub, you can look into
[configuring a hardware
passkey](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/authenticating-with-a-passkey/about-passkeys)
or adding a [personal access
token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens)
to avoid the need to type in your password every time you push to your fork.

### Configure commit signing

Additionally, you will need to configure your local `git` setup and
GitHub account to use [commit
signing](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/about-commit-signature-verification). All
commits to the `csp` repository must be signed to increase the
difficulty of a supply-chain attack against the `csp` codebase. The
easiest way to do this is to [configure `git` to sign commits with your
SSH
key](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/about-commit-signature-verification#ssh-commit-signature-verification). You
can also use a [GPG
key](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/about-commit-signature-verification#gpg-commit-signature-verification)
to sign commits.

In either case, you must also add your public key to your github account
as a signing key. Note that if you have already added an SSH key as an
authentication key, you will need to add it again [as a signing
key](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account).

# Github for maintainers

## Triaging Issues

The bug tracker is both a venue for users to communicate to the
developers about defects and a database of known defects. It's up to the
maintainers to ensure issues are high quality.

We have a number of labels that can be applied to sort issues into
categories. If you notice newly created issues that are poorly labeled,
consider adding or removing some labels that do not apply to the issue.

The issue template encourages users to write bug reports that clearly
describe the problem they are having and include steps to reproduce the
issue. However, users sometimes ignore the template or are not used to
GitHub and make mistakes in formatting or communication.

If you are able to infer what they meant and are able to understand the
issue, feel free to edit their issue description to fix formatting or
correct issues with a script demonstrating the issue.

If there is still not enough information or if the issue is unclear,
request more information from the submitter. If they do not respond or
do not clarify sufficiently, close the issue. Try to be polite and have
empathy for inexperienced issue authors.

## How to check out a PR locally

This workflow is described in the [GitHub
docs](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/checking-out-pull-requests-locally#modifying-an-inactive-pull-request-locally).

1. Identify the pull request ID. This is the number of the pull request
   in the GitHub UI, which shows up in the URL for the pull request. For
   example, https://github.com/Point72/csp/pull/98 has PR ID 98.

1. Fetch the pull request ref and assign it to a local branch name.

   ```bash
   git fetch upstream pull/<ID>/HEAD/:LOCAL_BRANCH_NAME
   ```

   where `<ID>` is the PR ID number and `LOCAL_BRANCH_NAME` is a name
   chosen for the PR branch in your local checkout of `csp`.

1. Switch to the PR branch

   ```bash
   git switch LOCAL_BRANCH_NAME
   ```

1. Rebuild `csp`

## Pushing Fixups to Pull Requests

Sometimes pull requests don't quite make it across the finish line. In
cases where only a small fixup is required to make a PR mergeable and
the author of the pull request is unresponsive to requests, the best
course of action is often to push to the pull request directly to
resolve the issues.

To do this, check out the pull request locally using the above
instructions. Then make the changes needed for the pull request and push
the local branch back to GitHub:

```bash
git push upstream LOCAL_BRANCH_NAME
```

Where `LOCAL_BRANCH_NAME` is the name you gave to the PR branch when you
fetched it from GitHub.

Note that if the user who created the pull request selected the option
to forbid pushes to their pull request, you will instead need to
recreate the pull request by pushing the PR branch to your fork and
making a pull request like normal.

# Release Manual

## Doing a "normal" release

Making regular releases allows users to test code as it gets added and
allows developers to quickly get feedback on changes and new features. A
release announcement is the primary way projects communicate with the
majority of users, so you should think of the release and accompanying
notes as a way to communicate expectations for users.

### Choosing a version number

The clearest signal you can send to users about what to expect from a
release is the version number you choose. Most users expect version
numbers to follow [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/) or semver,
where the version number indicates the sorts of changes to expect.

With semver, There are three kinds of releases, each of which have a
different potential impact on users.

- #### Patch release

  This is the most common kind of release. A patch release should only
  include fixes for bugs or other changes that cannot impact code a
  user writes with the `csp` package. A user should be able to safely
  upgrade `csp` from the previous version to a new patch release with
  no changes to the output of their code and no new errors being
  raised, except for fixed bugs. Whether or not a bug fix is
  sufficiently impactful to break backward compatibility is a
  judgement call. It is best to err on the side of safety and do a
  major release if you are unsure.

- #### Minor releases

  This indicates a new feature has been added to the library in a
  backward incompatible. Minor releases can include bugfixes as well
  but should not include backward incompatible changes. For example,
  adding a new keyword argument to a Python function is a backward
  compatible change but removing an argument or changing its name is
  backwards incompatible.

- #### Major releases

  A major release indicates that there are changes in the release that
  are not backward compatible, and users may need to update their code
  to accommodate the change. When possible, efforts should be made to
  communicate to users how to migrate their code.

Note that the primary concern is user impact. Sometimes a bug fix is so
disruptive to users that fixing it qualifies as a major
change. Sometimes a new feature is so big that it fundamentally changes
the nature of the library and it deserves a major release to indicate
that, even if there are no breaking changes. Sometimes a change is
breaking, but only in a very unlikely scenario that can be safely
ignored in practice. It is best to use your good judgement when choosing
a new version number and not slavishly follow rules. Be empathetic to
your users.

### Preparing and tagging a release

Follow these steps when it's time to tag a new release. Before doing
this, you will need to ensure `bump2version` is installed into your
development environment.

1. Ensure your local clone of `csp` is synced up with GitHub, including
   any tags that have been pushed since you last synced:

   ```bash
   git pull upstream main --tags
   ```

1. Make a branch and update version numbers in your local clone using
   the `bump2version` integration in the Makefile.

   First, make a branch that will be pushed to the main `csp`
   repository. Using a name like `release/v0.3.4` should avoid any
   conflicts and make it clear what the branch is for.

   ```bash
   git checkout -b release/v0.x.x
   ```

   For example, for a bugfix release, `bump2version` will automatically
   update the codebase to use the next bugfix version number if you do:

   ```bash
   make patch
   ```

   Similarly, `make minor` and `make major` will update the version
   numbers for minor and major releases, respectively. Double-check
   that the version numbers have been updated correctly with `git  diff`, and then `git commit` the change.

1. Push your branch to GitHub, and trigger a "full" test run on the branch.

   Navigate to the [GitHub Actions "build status"
   workflow](https://github.com/Point72/csp/actions/workflows/build.yml). Click
   the white "Run workflow" button, make sure the "Run full CI" radio
   button is selected, and click the green "Run workflow" button to
   launch the test run.

1. Propose a pull request from the branch containing the version number updated. Add a link to the successful full test run for reviewers.

1. Review and merge the pull request. Make sure you delete the branch
   afterwards.

1. Tag the release

   Use the version number `bump2version` generated and make sure the
   tag name begins with a `v`.

   ```bash
   git tag v0.2.0
   ```

1. Push the tag to GitHub

   ```bash
   git push upstream main --follow-tags
   ```

   You will need access in the repository settings to be able to push
   tags to the repository. Access to merge pull requests is not
   sufficient to overcome the tag protection settings in the repository.

Pushing a tag name that begins with `v` should automatically trigger a
full test run that will generate a GitHub release. You can follow along
with this run in the GitHub actions interface. There should be two
actions running, one for the push to `main` and one for the new tag. You
want to inspect the action running for the new tag. Once the run
finishes, there should be a new release on the ["Releases"
page](https://github.com/Point72/csp/releases).

### Releasing to PyPI

#### A developer's first release

If this is your first release, you will need an account on pypi.org and
your account will need to be added as a maintainer to the `csp` project
on pypi. You will also need to have two factor authentication enabled on
your PyPI account.

Once that is set up, navigate to the API token page in your PyPI
settings and generate an API token scoped to the `csp` project. **Do not**
navigate away from the page displaying the API token before the next
step.

Optionally, you can create an account on test.pypi.org if you would like
to do a dry run of the release. You will also need to set up an API
token on test.pypi.org.

Create a `.pypirc` file in your home directory, and add the following
content:

```
[distutils]
  index-servers =
    testpypi
    csp
[testpypi]
  username = __token__
  password = <your API key, including pypi- prefix>
[csp]
  repository = https://upload.pypi.org/legacy/
  username = __token__
  password = <your API key, including pypi- prefix>
```

#### Doing the release

##### Download release artifacts from github actions

Make sure you are in the root of the `csp` repository and execute the
following commands.

```bash
rm -r dist
mkdir dist
cd dist
curl -sL https://api.github.com/repos/Point72/csp/releases/latest | grep browser_download_url | cut -d '"' -f 4 | xargs -I '{}' curl -LO {}
cd ..
```

You should end up with a copy of the wheel files and source distribution
associated with the GitHub release. You should verify that all files
were successfully downloaded. Currently there are 6 MacOS wheels and 4
linux wheels. There should only be one source distribution.

Optionally, you can lint the release artifacts with

```bash=
twine check --strict dist/*
```

This happens as part of the CI so this should only be a double-check.

##### Optionally upload to testpypi to test "pip install"

```
twine upload --repository testpypi dist/*
```

You can check that the wheel installs correctly with `pip` from
`testpypi` like so:

```bash
pip install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple --extra-index-url https://pypi.org/simple csp
```

Note that `extra-index-url` is necessary to ensure downloading
dependencies succeeds.

##### Upload to pypi

If you are sure the release is ready, you can upload to pypi like so:

```bash
twine upload --repository csp dist/*`
```

Note that this assumes you have a `.pypirc` set up as explained above.

Assuming the upload completes successfully, you should see a message
like

```
View at:
https://pypi.org/project/csp/<version number>/
```

## Dealing with release mistakes

Sometimes releases go wrong. Here is what to do when that happens. This
[blog post from Brett
Cannon](https://snarky.ca/what-to-do-when-you-botch-a-release-on-pypi/)
covers how to deal with various kinds of release mistakes on PyPI.
Some things to remember after reading that post:

- Completely broken releases should be yanked.
  - A yanked release is *not permanently deleted*
- Problems with metadata (e.g. the readme or metadata in
  `pyproject.toml`) can be dealt with by creating a `post` release.
- A problem with a wheel binary can be fixed by simply replacing the
  wheel file with a new wheel that has an incremented [build
  number](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/specifications/binary-distribution-format/#file-name-convention)
  with `twine upload`.
- If private data is published accidentally, a release can be
  permanently deleted. This should only be used as a last resort option.
